CodeCommit offers a rich set of API and provides programmatic
access to your repository. In this demo, we're going to see how
an audit trail is maintained for every action that is being
performed on the repository.
I just logged into CloudTrail service, and the dashboard lists all the
latest events. Let me open the event named DeleteBranch.
This is the event that got triggered after we merged our
DevelopBranch to Master. Let me expand this event, and you can
see the event source is CodeCommit, and the user that was
responsible for the event is admin.
Click on View Event. You can see the event name is DeleteBranch and the
request parameters are repositoryName and branchName. .The response
elements are branchName and commitId. The one right below that log is an
event named MergePullRequestByFastForward. And again, this is triggered by
CodeCommit, and the user that initiated this action is admin. You can see
the pullRequestId,
repositoryName, and throwIfClosed are the request parameters. And right
below, you can see the corresponding response elements.
Let's go to JavaScript version of CodeCommit API reference,
and you can see the request parameters syntax.
Let's find the MergePullRequestByFastorward API, and you can see the
syntax of request and the response parameters.
In the last clip,
I mentioned that the lambda function that we
developed leveraged this CodeCommit API.
Let's go back to Lambda console, click on TestFunction.
You can see that we are using two CodeCommit APIs. One is getRepository,
for which we are passing the Repository name as a parameter. And the other API
call is getBranch where we are passing repositoryName under branchName as the
parameters. Before we jump to our next module,
let's quickly recap what we learned so far. We saw how to create a
notification rule in AWS CodeCommit and communicate repository changes as
an email to other developers using SNS topic. We developed a lambda
function and created a trigger so that for every action, we can stream
the activity to CloudWatch logs.
This is just the tip of the iceberg.
We can be as creative and customize this lambda function to invoke other
AWS services that our project may dictate. We later saw the rich set of
API that's provided by CodeCommit and how to interpret the CodeCommit
events that are maintained by CloudTrail and how to use the request and
the response parameters offered by the API in creating a lambda function
and interact with other AWS services. In the next module, we are going to
see how to combine AWS Cloud9 and AWS CodeCommit and use it with AWS CodeStar.